## 1. Docker Behind The Scene

---

To understand Docker clearly we need to know what works behind the scene.

#### Namespace

There are two types of namespace in linux architecture.

1. User Namespace
2. Kernel Namespace

Docker makes use of kernel namespaces to provide the isolated workspace called the container. When we run a container, Docker creates a set of namespaces for that container. These namespaces provide a layer of isolation. Each aspect of a container runs in a separate namespace and its access is limited to that namespace.

#### ARP (Address Resolution Protocol)

Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a procedure for mapping a dynamic Internet Protocol address (IP address) to a permanent physical machine address in a local area network (LAN).

When a new computer joins a LAN, it is assigned a unique IP address to use for identification and communication. When an incoming packet destined for a host machine on a particular LAN arrives at a gateway, the gateway asks the ARP program to find a MAC address that matches the IP address. A table called the ARP cache maintains a record of each IP address and its corresponding MAC address.

#### Network Interface

A network interface is the point of interconnection between a computer and a private or public network. There are two types of network interface.

1. Loopback Interface
2. eth0 Interface

A network interface is generally a network interface card (NIC), but does not have to have a physical form. Instead, the network interface can be implemented in software. For example, the loopback interface (127.0.0.1 for IPv4 and ::1 for IPv6) is not a physical device but a piece of software simulating a network interface. The loopback interface is commonly used in test environments.

#### Bridge

\$traceroute

#### Creating New Namespace With Bridge

Lets create our own namesapce.

##### Namespaces With Bridge

**Create Namespace**

```shell
    sudo ip netns add ns1
    sudo ip netns add ns2
```

**Add veth peer**

```shell
    sudo ip link add veth-ns1 type veth peer name veth-ns1-br
    sudo ip link add veth-ns2 type veth peer name veth-ns2-br
```

**Set link**

```shell
    sudo ip link set veth-ns1 netns ns1
    sudo ip link set veth-ns2 netns ns2
    sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip addr add 192.168.15.1/24 dev veth-ns1
    sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip addr add 192.168.15.2/24 dev veth-ns2
    sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip link set veth-ns1 up
    sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip link set veth-ns2 up
    sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip link set lo up
    sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip link set lo up
    sudo ip link add br1 type bridge
    sudo ip link set dev br1 up
    sudo ip link set veth-ns1-br up
    sudo ip link set veth-ns2-br up
    sudo ip link set veth-ns1-br master br1
    sudo ip link set veth-ns2-br master br1
    sudo ip addr add 192.168.15.10 dev br1
```

```shell
    sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip route add default via 192.168.15.10
    sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip route add default via 192.168.15.10
```

```shell
    sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 192.168.1.0/24 -j MASQUARADE
    sudo sysctl -w net.ipv4-ip-forward=1
```

**MASQUARADE**
